EDITION: UK
Search
 MUST READ: iPhone 12: All the models, launch dates, pricing and specs
GitHub to replace 'master' with 'main' starting next month
All new Git repositories on GitHub will be named "main" instead of "master" starting October 1, 2020.

Catalin Cimpanu
By Catalin Cimpanu | September 20, 2020 -- 01:28 GMT (02:28 BST) | Topic: Developer

github-master.png
Starting next month, all new source code repositories created on GitHub will be named "main" instead of "master" as part of the company's effort to remove unnecessary references to slavery and replace them with more inclusive terms.

ZDNET RECOMMENDS
The best online collaboration tools in 2020: How remote teams stay productive
The best online collaboration tools in 2020: How remote teams stay productive

Teams need tools to help them collaborate and stay productive while remotely working. Here's our top picks.

Read More

GitHub repositories are where users and companies store and synchronize their source code projects.

By default, GitHub uses the term "master" for the primary version of a source code repository. Developers make copies of the "master" on their computers into which they add their own code, and then merge the changes back into the "master" repo.

"On Oct. 1, 2020, any new repositories you create will use main as the default branch, instead of master," the company said.

Existing repositories that have "master" set as the default branch will be left as is.

"For existing repositories, renaming the default branch today causes a set of challenges," GitHub explained in a support page published earlier this month, such as having to edit settings for pull requests and modifying security policies.

"By the end of the year, we'll make it seamless for existing repositories to rename their default branch," GitHub said.

"When you rename the branch, we'll retarget your open PRs and draft releases, move your branch protection policies, and more - all automatically."

GITHUB PROMISED IN JUNE
The company's move is part of a bigger trend in the tech community.

After the brutal death of George Floyd and the Black Lives Matter protests earlier this year, tech companies wanted to show their support for the black community by abandoning non-inclusive terms such as master, slave, blacklist, and whitelist.

Companies and major open source projects like Microsoft, IBM, Twitter, Red Hat, MySQL, the Linux kernel, and OpenBSD have agreed to make changes to their technical jargon all through the 2020 summer.

GitHub was one of the first companies to show support for such changes when its CEO revealed in June that they were already looking for a replacement for "master."

The company's announcement earlier this month comes to deliver on its CEO's promise.

Furthermore, the Git project, which is the base software on which GitHub was built, has also announced similar plans to at least provide repository owners with the option to customize their default repository branch going forward.


SECURITY
Leaders of ‘notorious’ Team Xecuter game piracy, homebrew group arrested
New Ttint IoT botnet caught exploiting two zero-days in Tenda routers
Best security keys: Hardware two-factor authentication for online protection
Best security cameras for business: Google Nest, Ring, Scout, and more
Cyber security 101: Protect your privacy from hackers, spies, and the government
How to keep connected cars safe from cyber attacks (ZDNet YouTube)
Top 6 cheap home security devices in 2020 (CNET)
Cybersecurity best practices: An open letter to end users (TechRepublic)
RELATED TOPICS: OPEN SOURCE ENTERPRISE SOFTWARE MOBILE OS
Catalin Cimpanu
By Catalin Cimpanu | September 20, 2020 -- 01:28 GMT (02:28 BST) | Topic: Developer

by TaboolaSponsored LinksRecommended For You
Build a City, Trade With Your Neighbors, Play With Your Friends
Forge of Empires - Free Online Game
Play the most challenging WWII strategy game, no install needed
Call of War | World War II
Play this new game for 1 Minute and see why everyone is addicted
Planet Capture
Many Mac Users Use This App To Clean Mac From Junk.
MacKeeper
 SHOW COMMENTS
MORE FROM CATALIN CIMPANU

Security

TrickBot botnet survives takedown attempt, but Microsoft sets new legal precedent


Security

Microsoft October 2020 Patch Tuesday fixes 87 vulnerabilities


Security

Malware gangs love open source offensive hacking tools


Tech Industry

Yahoo Groups to shut down for good on December 15, 2020

NEWSLETTERS
ZDNet Innovation Weekly
This week in emerging technology, innovative ideas from around the world and digital business transformation.
Your email address
 SUBSCRIBE
SEE
ALL
MORE RESOURCES
The Ultimate Learn to Code Bundle - ZDNet Academy

Training from ZDNet Academy
 READ NOW
ZDNet Academy - Ultimate SQL Bootcamp

Training from ZDNet Academy
 READ NOW
Lifetime Access: Project Management Professional Certification Training Bundle

Training from ZDNet Academy
 READ NOW
RELATED STORIES
 1 of 3 

Tesla's Elon Musk: Some 'expert, careful' drivers get beta Full Self-Driving next week
Tesla's beta of Full Self-Driving will be released to a limited number of drivers next Tuesday.


The tiny BBC micro:bit mini-computer just got a big upgrade
The pocket-sized computer has a new microphone and better hardware, so that children can learn the basics of machine learning.


Twilio to acquire CDP player Segment for $3.2 billion
Twilio will use the all-stock deal to add intelligence to its engagement cloud.







ZDNetCONNECT WITH US   
© 2020 CBS Interactive. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Cookies | Ad Choice | Advertise | Terms of Use | Mobile User Agreement

Visit other CBS Interactive sites: 
Select Site
Topics
Galleries
Videos
Sponsored Narratives
CA Privacy/Info We Collect
CA Do Not Sell My Info
About ZDNet
Meet The Team
All Authors
RSS Feeds
Site Map
Reprint Policy
Join | Log In
Membership
Newsletters
Site Assistance
ZDNet Academy
TechRepublic Forums
Manage Scripts
